---
layout: post
title: Resume of Chao Tan
subtitle: exploring staff opportunities in tech company
author: tanchao
date: 2021-12-26 23:00:00 +0800
categories: supertan
tags: supertan
---

# Chao Tan

## Profile

Problem Solver, passionate in ambiguity fixing, from CS issue diving deep to business pain point inception; belief in
goal delivery and task automation, built team with tech vision, owner culture and right mechanism; proficient in
microservices architecture, performance tuning and operation, refactored and rearchitected complex production
monolithic systems; rich experience in API design and review; good data flow knowledge on both streaming and
persistence stage, familiar with AWS purpose-built databases; hands-on programmer in Java and Python; wrote a lot.

## Experience

**Amazon** Sr. SDE *2016 till now*

- Tech lead in Alexa cloud platform services, particularly focus on ***Alexa Skill Kit***
    - subject matter expert in Alexa “event flow” (vs. voice flow) and “skills security”
    - owned the legacy remote application contract for hundred internal teams
    - led the new universal application contract for both internal and external Alexa developers
    - *Alexa Call Leader, Alexa API Reviewer, Amazon Security Certifier, Amazon Mentor*
- Built *A2GS* from scratch for Amazon’s consumer robot (Astro) beta launch; rearchitected and repurposed it for 
decoupling project; owned service operational excellence; lead 12 SDE team and watched 3 sister teams.
    - operated Amazon Tier-1 service with hundred thousand TPS with millisecond-latency threshold
    - designed 3 major APIs with multi-versions that serving several clients and hundreds down streams
    - documented platform knowledge repository that served developers both internally and externally
    - dived JVM threading and heap to save multiple seconds cold-start time; optimized Client, LB and Service connection config with 100 times load; customized throttling with proper granularity.
- *AlexaService Decoupling*: decoupled THE Alexa cloud service into three fundamental platform services so that 
Alexa-wide development velocity improved significantly, impacting ten thousand developers.
    - led the Alexa Event API design that reviewed and signed off by L10 engineer lead
    - led the engineering team (14 SDE) to decouple and migrate without customer impacting outage
    - coached 2 sister teams (10 SDE) for other APIs delivery and cooperated with 3 partner teams ( 4 0+ SDE)
- *amazon.com/bbp (Amazon Bargain Finds)*: key contributor of the _BrightBuy_ project with team of 8 engineers;
    designed and implemented frontend preview page; resulted a billion level GMV subsite.
- *haimai.amazon.cn (Amazon Global Selling)*: tech lead of the _HaiMai_ project with 5 engineers; wrote tech
    strategy of seller experiment lab; resulted 200% traffic increase and 50% growth of China based Amazon
    Global Seller registered year-over-year.

**HSBC** Senior Software Engineer *2012 – 2016*

- Founded Murex Environment Management Platform (MESA) from scratch, reduced environment initialization
    time from 2 days to 2 hours; automated the testing full-regression from 2 weeks human task to daily auto job.
- Expanded the MESA to North America region; improved Valuation Service reconciliation procedure saved 75%
    workload; reduced middle office support tickets to 20% via self-service tooling.

**eBay Inc.** Release Engineer *2011 – 2012*  
**eBaoTech** Application Developer *2010 – 2011*  
**Wondersgroup** Software Engineer *2008 – 2010*

## Education

**East	China	University	of	Science	and	Technology** _2008_
**B.S.** in **Computer Science**; Diploma in Finance.


