---
layout: post
title: about me
subtitle: a real resume, i don't cheat nor I tell everything.
author: tanchao
date: 2021-12-26 23:23:23 +0800
categories: supertan
tags: supertan
---

```
After I transform my word resume from word to markdown, I felt boring.
So here we are with a better version.
```

# TC

## Who am I

* believe in "SDE = Somebody Do Everything", so not a pure engineer but a real problem solver.
* believe in myself, confident to handle any problems; also know my limitation, and voice out if I'm there.
  * more specific, *any* probably limit to *tech problem* at this time.
* believe in automation, since eBay work learning from an awesome tech leader (Eric Tian), #automateeverything became my tag.
* current interest is `dynamic software system performance tuning`, not full-stack but the full-backend-stack, from client (I design restful api but prefer to own the client side), service data store and software environment.

## What I am looking for

* Amazon told me the best lesson with it's culture, so I am looking for an organization with `its own culture`
  * actually it's the long-term thinking, the company grow 10yrs at 30% is better than company double YoY for 3 yrs.
* `Business` overcomes anything else, I'm always ready for the rocket ship
  * I believe in `ownership` a lot, pick the right property so I shall not regret
* Looking back my whole career, I grew only when I was with `great people`
  * personal growth ensure it's not just boring work for money

## What did I do

* I code since college with computer science major at 2004; but I learnt programming till my first job at 2008, by which I added "debugging, testing and deploying"; I named myself developer when I was in Singaore working for eBaoTech, because I realized that I could create something beyond what the job ask me to; I grew to a good engineer at eBay with a good leader who told me the real power of programs: automation; I became a senior engineer at HSBC because I had junior engineers to lead.
* I am no longer a software engineer with my lessons in Amazon, I am the "SDE" here. I could pay attention to end customer experience and how the business work then realize how I could contribute the best with my positon; I could measure, observe and reason really really really complicated systems (hundreds of services) and offer alternative solutions for different purpose under various constraints; I could focus on the mechanism, process and culture to ensure the tech team is with a good habit so that whole E.E. (engineering excellence) is efficient; I could own as much as I am motivated to, O.E. (operational excellece), product, feature, design, code review, code change and wikis, for example my recent favorite was the launch plan for new buddy.

## What I am good at

* I view dynamic system end-to-end and I keep customer and business in mind during my view
* I know how to make technical trade-offs and have some experience on few domains (developer platform, micro-services)
* I managed complex projects and exprienced complex situations (long running big project, turn-red-to-green, plan-b etc.)
* I lead junior engineers via mechanism (coded or forced process), standards (normal process) and documentation. I am not a good talker but I am always open to talk.
* trouble shooting and reasoning the root cause
* fast learner

## What I am not good at

* I am emotional sometimes, as I'm self critical, I'm good at be critical to others too. (after that emotional period, I felt sorry and tried to fix it.)
* I don't hide, I enjoyed sending accolades, at the same time, I am also straight forward with my constructive feedbacks.

## Why change?

* I believe in Amazon LPs because the whole company practice it in blood, now there are new LPs which conflict the practice. (I know it's weired, but it's a blief broken thing to me.)
* I spent my past 10years in giant organizations, I am looking for a smaller organization and I am eager for growth speed.
* I have some idea on what the future like and what the companies are building it, I want to be part of them.

## Why now?

* I got my combo card recently and is waiting for my final green card approval or interview
  * (I-140 approved, I-485 submitted on Oct. 2020)
* I was with L1B visa