---
layout: post
title: Engineering Excellence
subtitle: OE(operational excellence) is well known, how about EE?
author: tanchao
date: 2022-02-03 09:30:00 -0800
categories: supertan
tags: supertan
---



GTD

Brad Porters Common steps of all projects (my annotations). I find this framework a good way of thinking about projects. I've put in my thoughts and links to papers I like that go a level deeper.

Projects at Amazon tend to succeed only when they complete each of these steps in order.

Problem identified
All problems at Amazon are customer problems (internal reference,good book)
Why now?
This typically is a PM/PM-T, with SDE/TPM/PM-T on technical feasibility
Artifacts: Email, PRFAQ, 1/3/6 Pager (On Writing)
Problem widely understood (between leaders, stake holders... company-wide requires much broader group to understand) -  If the problem is not widely understood you will not get a lot of backing to solve the problem.
Usually the first point in time a tie-break is needed if a similar system exists
Do you have data to make a decision? Understand the customer point of view, what's being done now, what's the process, what's the reality on the ground? This will help ensure the problem is understood but the basis of the coming decision is data driven.
SDE L6+ role here is to help influence on technically credible possible solutions ("is this nuts?")
Artifacts: Email, PRFAQ, 1/3/6 Pager (On Writing)
Owner Identified - Nothing happens at Amazon without a tagged owner that everyone believes owns it. Usually decided in the management chain, someone stepping up, assigned by someone more senior, etc.
Ownership modes should follow PE Roles framework (really, L6+ Roles framework)--  (Roles Framework)
Focus on establishing high velocity decision making  (Alignment vs Decision Making)
This typically is a TPM for OLT/STeam goal, SDE if we don't have a TPM leveled to scope
Artifacts: Meeting minutes, Project wiki, email list
Plan in Place
Define the parameters of a 'good' solution: constraints, SLA/SLO, Tenets, are dates important? (Tenets)
Define how to measure success, input/output metrics (Metrics and Measurement, good book)
Focus on how a solution works (not the what we will build), this scales across teams better
Define scope boundary, possibly leading to forked off problems (back to step 1)
Don't do all upfront design, bound sub-designs by constraints that can be built in "step 5: executing"
Separate a roadmap of 'ideal' end state from milestones of incremental value
Artifacts: "How" technical document, prototype code (catalyst) (On Writing)
Executing (you may not do all the work here but you HAVE to track it.)
Design and building iteratively to solve 'what' to build that meets the 'how in step 4.
Define key milestones to deliver value
Artifacts: Design docs, Code, Test Plans (On Writing)
Adoption / Solution (do not stop at PLAN, this is a common PE failure pattern).
Track with business/health metrics.
Guide the growth from pilot to everywhere, scaling to new regions and customers stresses designs
remove the short-term decisions (tech debt) used to launch quickly
Help re-evaluate milestones based on customer data, recommend changes as necessary
Artifacts: Dashboards, Page 0 metrics, SIMs/CRs removing tech debt and bug fixing, helping with "escalations"
